We are going to clone the start
branch of the Learn with Jason chat
ops Frontend Masters repo.
To clone this repo, we're going to run
GitHub repo clone learn with Jason,
and then chatops-frontend-masters.
And then I'm gonna run a -- to
get us out of the GitHub CLI and
into just plain old git commands.
And I wanna clone this start repo,
so -b for branch and start.
So, this is gonna give
us the start branch,
and when I move into this,
I can see that I'm on the start branch.
So, here we have the pieces that we're
gonna need, and there's not a lot in here.
These are all just stubbed out files so
that we have a starting
point to work from.
And then we've got our big old
file of type definitions so
that we don't have to write
any of those ourselves.
You can look at those if
you're interested but
you won't need to be
in this folder at all.
Then we have a couple other pieces
that we'll want, like we've got
the Netlify config setup here to grab
the functions from the right place.
And to set up a redirect so
that we can use a slash API
command instead of anything else.
And yeah, that pretty much puts
us in good shape here, so, Next,
what I'm gonna do is I wanna get
this ready for us to develop.
So, I'm gonna NPM install, and that
gives us the dependencies that we need.
There aren't a lot in this one.
We're basically using Netlify functions
and then the types node, we'll install,
actually I don't think we'll
install anything else as we go.
This is a pretty lightweight
bot which I always appreciate,
because it means there's just less things
to hold in your head as context as you go.
Then the other thing that we need to do is
we need to actually deploy this to Netlify
so that we can run the live tunnel,
and that's because Netlify is
using details from the project
to set up the live tunnel.
So we're going to run a GitHub repo fork.
And this is going to give me
a copy of this repo in my
personal account, and
I do want to add a remote.
Okay, so now that I've got this
cloned on my own version of it,
I can push this thing live and
be able to use it.
So the reason we're gonna do this again
is because we need to have a live tunnel,
because Slack bots operate by sending
requests to a live URL that we set up.
So, similar to a webhook
if you've ever set one up.
And the way that a webhook
works is that it's
a URL available somewhere
publicly on the web.
And whenever the app that you've
added a webhook to has something for
your particular command,
it sends that payload to that live URL.
So for us to test a Slack bot,
we need to have that live URL,
which won't work with local development.
So, the Netlify CLI has this
built-in feature to add a live
tunnel into our local development box,
which means that we can
use the webhook public URL field on
Slack with our local development box.
Which it's gonna make such a huge
difference for the speed of development.
Cuz our only alternative would be to
actually deploy this every time we make
a change to test it and
see if it works, which is it's slow.
It's frustrating.
And it just tends to take,
it takes me out of it if I have to wait
five minutes between trying things.
And I tend to get distracted and
move on to other projects, and
I just tend to not make a lot
of progress in those instances.
So, now that we've got this thing forked,
I am going to install the Netlify CLI.
Okay, so
we've got the Netlify CLI installed,
wow, and I'm gonna run
netlify-v to get the version.
So, we're running
Netlify CLI version 15.2.0.
Then I'm going to make sure I'm
logged in by running Netlify login.
And it says I'm already logged in.
Why don't I log out so
that I can show that actual flow?
Okay, so I'm gonna run Netlify login, and
it's going to open up my GitHub account,
or my sorry,
my Netlify account, and
ask if I meant to log in, right?
So, I want to authorize that.
Great, I can close this window.
So I'm gonna close this one down and
then back here.
I'm now logged in.
And if I run Netlify status,
it will show me who I am and all that.
But it says here, I'm not in a folder
that's linked to a site, and
that's expected cuz we
haven't set one up yet.
So, we're going to set up that
site by running Netlify init, And
we're going to connect, let's say we
want to create and configure a new site.
This is a brand new one
that we wanna ship.
So, I'm gonna put it on my team, and
we can call it whatever we want, but
because we're going to have to
update this name in a few places,
I'm gonna give it a name
that I can remember.
So I'll just go with like a short name
like that, and then we don't have
a build command, we can keep the defaults
there, it's gonna set all that up for us.
Good, and now we're happy.
So next,
we can start this thing in live mode.
So, the Netlify dev command
will start a local dev server,
it'll auto detect what's going on,
because in this case we're
using serverless functions,
which we'll talk about in a moment.
Netlify is gonna auto detect all of that.
But what we want to add is this live flag.
And so what the live flag does is it
tells Netlify to set up that live tunnel,
which again, we need to be set up with
a deployed site to use that live flag.
Because it's gonna use
the name of the project, and
just a few other things to
actually make this function.
So, this is now a live
running instance of our
development box,
which is available on the web.
So, if I go in here and I look at our
function here, this is our function for
the Slack, and right now it doesn't do
anything other than return a 200 status.
And the body handles Slack interactivity.
So, if I head back out,
open that in the bigger
window here, and I head over to API Slack,
we've got, that's running in the web.
And anybody who wants to
can hit this if you go
to the
chatops-fem-22e106.netlify.live/api/slack
that is going to run on
your computer right now for
as long as my development
instance is running.
And the reason this is exciting is
it means that I can now use this.
And whenever I make a change,
That change is also available
through that live URL instantly.
And so that means that my local
development will be reflected in
the Slack's "/" command on Save,
instead of requiring me to deploy
the serverless function every time.
And even if it only takes a few seconds,
it just takes you out of your flow.
So, this is a big reason, it's why the
inconvenience of having to get that site
deployed and set up in Netlify CLI,
it's why it's worth it because
you get this extra interactivity.
And this is handy in a lot of reasons.
Like you can use this to share your work
in progress with a co-worker without
having to deploy it or
all sorts of other things.
But in this particular case, I don't know
of any other way to do this other than
setting up something like ngrok.
Which is, again,
basically the same functionality but
it's a little more involved and
it's a separate service as well.
So, that is gonna be the the foundation
of running this bot.